Hey everyone.
Today we're announcing Instant 1.0.
Instant turns your favorite coding
agent into a full-stack app builder.
With Instant, you'll be able to
create unlimited apps for free.
You'll get a database, auth,
storage, permissions, and streams
all wrapped in one platform.
Every app you make with Instant
is going to be delightful.
Why?
It's gonna come with real
time, multiplayer support,
and offline out of the box.
Why does this matter?
It's 2026, we're using agents
to write all of our code.
The problem: If you're trying to build
an app, it's probably gonna be slop.
It's never been easier to build,
but if you want to stand out, the
quality bar is higher than ever.
Just look at the best apps today.
First, every interaction feels instant.
People can work together and
collaborate in real time.
And even when you go offline,
your app still works.
Users expect this kind of experience, but
how do you prompt your agents to build it?
Without Instant, this is
what you'd have to do:
First, you ask your agent to add
a database to store all your data.
Next, you tell it to layer in web
sockets, so everything is real time.
If you want to support offline mode, you
have to ask your agent to add IndexedDB.
And if you want to make it feel fast,
you tell them to write optimistic updates
and worry about optimistic queues.
Your agents shouldn't need to
write this for every app you build.
And you shouldn't have to think
about the details either, you
should just be able to build.
This should be infra, and
that is what Instant is for.
Instant abstracts all of
this infra into one box.
If you give your agents this
box, it has everything it
needs to build delightful apps.
To give you a sense of what we mean,
let's look at a simple to-do app.
This app just uses a useState hook.
So If you add a message and you
refresh, all that data will be gone.
Without a backend, your data
won't be saved anywhere.
Let's go ahead and add it.
With Instant, you can just replace
useState with useQuery and transact.
Just with this, the app gets persistence.
Refresh the page, and the data lives on.
It's also real time.
New to-dos show up
instantly across clients.
And, it works offline.
You can turn off the internet, still
keep using the app and everything
will sync back once you're online.
Your agents write simple
code and make better apps.
But that's not all, Instant
comes with everything
you need to build a real app.
Want folks to be able to sign up?
We have support from magic
codes, guest login, and OAuth.
Want to secure your data?
You can use permission rules
to define who can see what.
Now, what about making
our app feel more alive?
Well for that, you can use
presence to add features like
who's online and shared cursors.
How about allowing our
users to upload images?
Forget S3.
Instant comes with storage, and
uploads are just rows in your database.
Now what about adding AI to our apps?
Well, for that we have streams that let
you display tokens as fast as they arrive.
And, streams work across
refreshes and network drops too.
Finally, Instant comes with CLI
tools that let you create projects,
modify schema, and use all of these
services directly from the terminal.
No need to click any dashboards,
just build great apps.
Alright, so what's gonna
happen when your app explodes?
And I mean in a good
way: When it goes viral.
Well, Instant is designed
to scale with you.
We already serve about 10,000
concurrent connections every second.
And, startups trust us to run
their core infrastructure.
With Instant, you can get started right
away and you'll know that you have the
right foundations for when your app grows.
And there's one more thing: With Instant,
you can make unlimited apps for free
and your projects are never paused.
How is it possible?
We built instant to be
multi-tenant by default.
Instead of spinning up a VM for every
project, we use a logical abstraction.
Creating a new database in Instant
means just adding an extra row
to our multi-tenant database.
Have lots of great ideas?
With Instant, you're never
blocked from creating great apps.
You can try us out by running npx
create-instant-app in your terminal.
Come on over and say hi on Discord.
We're excited to see what you build.